I just installed Windows 11 and out of
the box it's a complete mess with much
lower performance and snappiness than
Windows 10 so here's what I'm gonna be
doing and what you need to do after
installing Windows 11 in order to
completely optimize Windows 11 for
gaming and performance in 2023 we are
going to be using a combination of tools
tweaks and settings to increase the
performance of Windows 11 and give it a
much needed boost but quickly guys if
you want zero ping in any game that you
play then check out the gear up booster
from the link in the description as it
provides you with the optimal Network
routes to giving you zero ping and
packet loss in every game so go down
into the description and download the
Europe booster now and now let's get
back into the video so as you guys can
see that I've just recently set up my
windows 11 and I haven't applied any of
the optimizations aside from installing
a few of games and softwares the windows
is basically completely stock so the
very first thing that I would recommend
you to do and what I did was go into the
start menu and open up the settings and
then go into the accounts inside of here
just make sure that you log out of your
Microsoft account the reason for that is
pretty simple because Microsoft account
uses a lot of telemetry which causes not
only performance issues but as well as
privacy issues so if you have your
Microsoft account logged in just going
to design in options log out of that one
and log into a new local account once
you are done with that you can close out
of this and now we can move on to the
next step and that is to go down into
the description of this video and
download the windows 11 optimization
pack since it is a ZIP file just go
ahead and extract it using 7-Zip window
or whatever you want I'm just going to
go ahead and open it up and drag the
folder out of it once the pack has been
extracted go ahead and open it up and
inside of here you will find two folders
as well as a setup so the first thing
that you want to do is open up the GPU
optimizations and of course inside of
here you want to download your GPU
drivers whether you are using an AMD GPU
or an Nvidia GPU as you guys can already
see however I have already downloaded
and installed the NVIDIA drivers since
those are required to record this video
but yeah that is the first thing that
you want to do and if for the best
drivers just go ahead and download the
latest ones right now because those are
the ones that are working the best at
the moment once you're done with that go
back into the pack open up the GPU
settings and go into the folder that
corresponds with your GPU so I am using
the Nvidia GPU I'm gonna go ahead and
open up nvs settings and the first thing
that I want to do is go ahead and apply
the Nvidia GPU tweaks.reg so double
click on it hit yes and then hit ok now
that that has been done what I'm gonna
do next is open up the Nvidia inspector
and then I'm just going to go ahead and
drag the rectum text profile onto the
Nvidia profile inspector it's going to
successfully import the profile and this
profile has everything from the visible
settings to the secret settings as well
as all the custom settings that I
personally use and why I have created
this so all you need to do is just drag
it onto here and then hit OK and now if
you go ahead and open up your Nvidia
control panel you're going to go ahead
and see that all of the changes have
been applied so as you guys can see that
inside of my 3D settings all of the
changes have already been applied and
it's all thanks to the profile but now
only that it also changes a lot of the
Hidden settings that are only visible
inside of the profile inspector so yeah
you can then go ahead and go back and in
case you're using an AMD GPU just open
up the AMD settings apply this and then
just copy all of these settings as well
as do the same thing for the Intel ones
so once you are done with the GPU
optimizations you can go ahead and go
back into the pack and open up the SVC
split hole threshold now this one is
basically for grouping of services and
the SVC processes so if I go into the
task manager by right clicking on the
taskbar and opening up the task manager
and inside of here I go into the
background apps as you guys can see
there are gonna be a lot of these
service host controllers or these
service host services or processes
whatever you want to call them and if I
open up the performance and go inside of
the CPU you can see that currently more
than 160 processors are running and the
only thing that I'm using are the
audacity the OBS a notepad and that's
basically it but you guys can see that
more than 150 processors are running
inside of here so we're going to be
going ahead and reducing those by
applying the this you can go ahead and
open up the readme to check out how this
works and how to basically use it but
basically what you want to do is check
the amount of ram that you have and then
apply the registry file accordingly so
for me I am using 16 gigs of RAM so I'm
gonna go ahead and double click on 16 GB
hgs hit ok now if you're using anything
above 32 gigs then just go ahead and
apply the 32 gigs one it's going to work
completely fine now the next time that
you restart your PC is going to group
most of those Services under a single
SVC hostname and it's going to reduce
those processes by a lot now this will
not just magically improve the
performance but it can certainly help a
lot of you guys then going back into the
pack and moving on to the most important
step that you have been waiting for and
that is basically deep loading and
completely optimizing and overhauling
the windows 11 and for that what you
need to do is install the bloody nosy
setup just go ahead and double click on
it once it opens up click on next just
go ahead and install it anywhere that
you want hit next at once again and it's
going to install within a couple of
seconds actually it's really fast and
simple to install so once it has been
installed just go ahead and hit it close
Android going to be going ahead and
launching it from our desktop so just
double click on it no need to run it as
admin or anything like that and inside
of here this is going to be the initial
interface but this program has a lot of
layers so I'm gonna be going ahead and
guiding you through one by one so the
first one is actually the browser as you
guys can see that it's going to disable
the Google Chrome as well as Mozilla
Firefox and the Bing search button for
the edge it's going to disable all of
those Telemetry which of course protects
our privacy as well as increase a little
bit of performance by decreasing the
number of background tasks that those
programs are running and then there is
the Explorer it's going to show hidden
files and file name extensions and then
for the desktop it's going to use the
app's Dark theme use Windows Dark theme
disable acrylic fluent design effects
disable snap assist that little thing
that shows up right here like this one
and it's also going to go ahead and
remove the stop stickers uninstall
widget features disable widgets I mean
you can always go ahead and uncheck
those if you want for example if you
want these widgets to be here which I
personally don't like you can go ahead
and uncheck those but I I would always
recommend keeping this on as for the
taskbar in the task menu it's going to
hide the search bar icon it's going to
also hide the task view Button as well
as the steams button and it's going to
go ahead and pin more apps onto the
start menu then as for this system it's
going to enable full context menus in
Windows 11 like the ones that you need
to go ahead and then do this to get I
don't know why Microsoft did that but
yeah it's also going to go ahead and
remove windows 11 Windows system
requirement Watermark and if you hover
over something it's going to display the
description about it like it says
Microsoft will display with Bill 225780
desktop watermark on devices where
Windows 11 is running on unsupported
devices or Hardware so it's gonna remove
that one it's also going to disable the
Microsoft teams on Startup of course
remove fax printer XPS document viewer
disable TPM 2.0 check and of course one
of the most important ones is it's going
to uninstall OneDrive which I don't know
why you would be using it but I would
highly recommend that you go ahead and
uninstall it right now as for the gaming
is going to disable game DVR disable
power throttling which I mean we have
already talked about in length about
descending power throttling and it also
says that it's going to increase the
battery life of your laptops but it also
helps with the performance and adjust
visual effects for best performance
again the advanced system settings
Shenanigans as for the Privacy once
again is going to disable all of the
tracks feedback suggestions advertising
IDs tailored experiences location
tracking and then for the feature
recommenders we have recommended
enabling Windows subsystem I'm just
going to go ahead and leave it there as
for the bloatware it's going to just
remove the based on the private database
as well as the search and pre-installed
software so what you need to do is once
everything here is checked hit analyze
so once the analysis has been complete
it says that if you have checked 41
features we like 10 of them and 31 of
them need to be removed and what you
need to do is just hit fix and then go
ahead and apply fixes hit yes and just
let it do its work so as you can see
that is going to ask me for an agreement
I'm gonna go ahead and type in why hit
enter and then it's gonna go ahead and
do its work you can always go ahead and
drag the process from here as you guys
can see that it has uninstalled
Microsoft wallet it's going to uninstall
the sound recorder and all of that good
stuff as well but yeah just let it run
let it complete its process and then we
can move on so now that that has been
done what you need to do is go ahead and
scroll down and go into the bloat pilot
now inside of here you will find a bunch
of apps that you can remove from here
what I have done is I have made a list
for you guys that you can go ahead and
uninstall without messing anything up so
all you need to do is just click on
these three bars click on import
bloatware list and inside of the pack if
you go ahead and open up the desktop and
then go into the optimization pack that
you just downloaded and you click on the
my bloatware list.txt hit open and then
click on OK and as you guys can see that
it has already selected like 20 of these
apps and all you need to do now is just
click empty bin and remove apps hit yes
and then it's gonna go ahead and
uninstall all of those that's how simple
and how easy it is to remove the
bloatware using this pack and my custom
list if an of some of these apps occurs
it's completely fine and normal just
skip those we're gonna be going ahead
and removing those later on anyways so
once you're done with that you can go
back into the main menu and then click
on the event model now inside of here
there's going to be a lot of other
important things that we're going to be
doing so I'm gonna go ahead and just
close out of the pack and what we're
gonna be doing inside of here is first
click on explore modes and then go ahead
and click on install and update mod
signature file because otherwise you
won't see this list now once you see
this list I'm gonna go ahead and make
sure that you download a few things the
first one is the remove Telemetry the
second one is remove one drive and the
third one is the Chris Titus text
Windows utility we're gonna be going
ahead and using this one to just
completely optimize Windows 11 for the
gaming so once you have selected all
three of these go ahead and click on
download and install mods and as you
guys can see the mods have been
successfully installed I'm gonna hit OK
and then we can go back and inside of
the win molder now there are three mods
installed the first one that you want to
run is just go ahead and click on the
remove OneDrive check like it hit apply
and then it's gonna go ahead and remove
the OneDrive so as you can see the mod
has been successfully applied and one
drive has been removed the second one is
disabled the services it's going to go
ahead and disable all of the unnecessary
services but you can always go ahead and
just check what those do by clicking on
this link I'm gonna go ahead and save
this one for later because it's going to
disable some of the services that may
mess up my recording but all you need to
do is just click on it hit apply and it
would be done now moving on to the most
important one and that is the Chris
Titus Tech spinders utility just check
it hit apply and it's going to go ahead
and download it from the GitHub and then
it's going to go ahead and run it so for
some reason this Chris Titus text
utility is not running from here so I'm
gonna be showing you guys an alternative
which is very easy to follow we're gonna
be going ahead and running this directly
from the GitHub so all you need to do is
just go ahead and open up your start
menu and search for Powershell go ahead
and run it as administrator and once it
opens up just go ahead and paste this
command that is irm space Chris
titus.com win and then the straight line
and then IEX then just go ahead and hit
enter and then it's going to ask you if
the chocolatey is installed we're gonna
be going ahead and hit yes and it's
going to install that so once that has
been installed here is the utility so as
you guys can see that now it has opened
up so if you guys are facing the same
issue where it won't run from here all
you can do is just use this alternative
method and it's going to work completely
fine just like it should now the first
tab will be the install Tab and inside
of here you have a bunch of software
that you can go ahead and install on
your windows especially if you have just
installed Windows there is a lot of
stuff that you want to install that may
be browsers communication like Discord
or Zoom or even for the development like
python you know JS and all of that good
stuff it's going to go ahead and show
you all of the softwares that have
already been installed on your PC like
you can see when I clicked on get
installed it shows all of these check
marks these are the softwares that I've
already installed so you can always go
ahead and uninstall those or upgrade all
or even install them again or install
other ones but we are not here for that
we are here for the tweaks and inside of
here there are a few things that I want
you to do the first one is disable
Telemetry the second one is disabled
Wi-Fi since you want this turned off
otherwise it's going to constantly keep
scanning disable activity history
disable temporary files run this cleanup
well I mean I would run it manually so
I'm not gonna go ahead and do it from
here disable tracking location home
groups storage sense disable hibernation
game DVR and set services to manual now
there are a lot of services inside of
here and as you guys can see even in the
description it says that these are
completely harmless and you can always
go ahead and revert those by just going
ahead and clicking on it and then
clicking on the undo selected tweaks
relator if you want to revert those but
yeah that's gonna be it and then we are
also going to be going ahead and adding
the ultimate power plan so once you
click on it go into the start menu
search for power options click on edit
power plan then go into the power
options and inside of here just go ahead
and select the ultimate performance
close out of it you can always go ahead
and create the win utility shortcut on
your desktop for example if I go ahead
and click it on here as you guys can see
now I can just double click on it to run
it anytime I want and then for the
disable Mysteries we're going to be
going ahead and disabling power
throttling and then there is the enable
or disable non logon startup show file
extensions yes set display for
performance it's going to set the system
preference to Performance then disable
UAC it's going to disable that pop-up
for the user account control disable
tray notifications DPM on update remove
all Ms store apps we're going to be
leaving that for now remove Katana
remove Microsoft Edge I highly recommend
this one because Edge keeps running
everywhere without even you opening it
up and then set the classic right menu I
personally use it it's really up to you
disable Mouse acceleration and then
disable the verbose login message we're
going to be going ahead and leaving it
as is so just go ahead copy all of this
you can always go ahead and select the
recommended settings for your desktop
for your laptop or for the minimal if
you want and also if you're using
laptops then go ahead and uncheck this
one as well so once you have selected
all of this just go ahead and click on
run tweaks it's going to run all of
those in the background right here and
as you guys can see that is going to go
ahead and stop and disable a lot of the
services actually here so the Twigs have
been finished we're gonna go ahead and
click on OK and if I go ahead and open
up the task manager right now actually I
believe it has removed task manager as
well so if I open that it's not going to
be opening up right now we can go ahead
and restart and check but if the Dos
manager has been removed there are a lot
of other Alternatives we can use so it's
completely normal also another thing
that if you want to revert those tweaks
you can always just go ahead and click
on them once again and then click on
undo selected tweaks but I'm not gonna
be doing that because I like these
disabled but yeah once all of this has
been done you can go ahead and close out
of this and you can always close out of
this as well you can run the utility
again through this shortcut and that's
basically going to be it now go ahead
and restart your PC and enjoy a much
lighter faster and better Windows 11. so
as you guys can see now that after the
restart everything is running completely
fine and normal we've got the new
context menu everything is in dark mode
and the windows is overall much more
snappier and faster than it used to be
another thing that I forgot to mention
before was if you right click and go on
to the task manager and inside of here
go into the startup apps you can go
ahead and disable all of the ones that
you won't be using especially the ones
that have a high impact on Startup go
ahead and click on those and click on
disable and since you guys can see that
I've already disabled a lot of those
actually most of these and that's gonna
be it so yeah that's it for this video
If this video helps you in any way shape
or form then make sure to leave a like
down below so that you can reach more
people and help them as well and make
sure to hit that subscribe button along
with the notification Bell so that you
get notified whenever I upload a brand
new video now with that I guess I'll see
you guys in the next one until then stay
awesome
[Music]
thank you